So now, in our last lecture, if you remember the first lecture, we were talking about how we can
communicate with the local large language model from Allama, from a user using the hyper terminal that
we were doing over here like this.
Right.
Like so we just ran the Allama Cuban model, and then we sent a message like a user, like a chat message.
And then it was responding as the details like this for us over here.
So that is this particular block diagram that you are seeing over here.
And in our last lecture we were trying to do this operation, which is this guy over here where we could
able to communicate with the large language model using the chat olama from the long chain.
And then we did an invoke and we sent the query and then it gave us the response back.
And also with the connectivity of the Langschmidt, we could able to get the, uh, traceability and
observability metrics into the Langschmidt portal.
And that's going to look something like this for us over here.
So user sends a request to the Lang chain.
And Lang chain in turn sends the request to the local large language model using the chat or llama.
And then we get the response back from the, uh, from the large language model to the Lang chain.
And we also record the traceability in the Lang Smith.
And then we get the response to the user.
Right.
So that is what is really happening all these days for us over here.
But again, the response is just coming from the local large language model via Olama is exactly what
is being printed for us over here.
As you can see, along with some traceability details and some some more details, pretty much like
the attributes, metadata and what are the things going on over there.
But what if while you build a large language model, you need to get the responses like how you want
it and also how you wanted to chat with the Lange chain over here in a better fashion.
So that is what we are going to be discussing.
So essentially, if you go back to the Lange chain or Lange Smith over here, sign up and let me just
log in there, which is this one.
And you will notice that we actually have an input of a human input.
And also we have an output as an AI output over here.
So basically human enters like hello, how are you doing today.
And the AI is returning as this particular response over here.
Right.
So if we wanted to perform a chat operation like how we are doing over here, we have got quite a lot
of different chat template to make this input and output more streamlined.
And that is what we are going to be discussing in this particular lecture.
Basically, we are going to discuss a different way to communicate with the with the large language
model via Lang chain, with quite a lot of different chat templates or prompt templates to make it more
streamlined.
That is what we are going to be discussing over here.
So I'm going to put a markdown over here and I'm going to say prompt and chat templates.
So these are things that we have to discuss for a couple of lectures from now.
And I'm going to put a code there.
And now I'm going to say from a Lang chain core dot, you can see that there is something called as
prompts.
And I'm going to import what is called as prompt template.
And this prompt template is the one which is responsible for creating the prompt as a user, like how
we were doing.
So this is the prompt that we have created over here.
And now we are going to create a structured prompt like how in reality you can send it through and large
language model application.
So I'm going to say prompt template is equal to.
And I'm going to call this prompt template class that I have imported.
And there is this method called as from template over here.
And this template I can now use to pass any of the message or the string message that I wanted to pass.
So basically I'm going to say what is the advantage of running the, uh, LM in a local machine?
Look at that.
I can now pass this template over here like like the prompt over here.
And now if I want to print how this prompt template is going to look like, you will notice that the
prompt template has got quite a lot of different inputs there.
It has got an input variable, input type partial variable.
And then there is a template.
What are these guys.
You see that there is input variable input types partial variables.
We have not even passed any of these.
But the prompt template class has got these parameters there.
And finally it has got the template of the prompt that we are trying to pass over there.
And now this begs the question, how is this really working and how is how we can use this input variables
and input types, and why do we even need it?
So for instance, if I want to reuse this particular prompt where I'm going to say, what is the advantage
of running the LLM in both local machine as well as the cloud machine.
So I don't really have to create two prompts.
Rather I can just create an input variable, something like this.
So I'm just going to put an env there.
So env I mean you can name it whatever that you want.
Maybe you can just say machine.
And so it can be a cloud machine or local machine or I'm just going to say environment or env for saying
what environment I'm running really.
So this is an variable that I'm creating over here.
And now if I try to run this over here, you see that the input variable has got e and v there.
So which means this is an input variable that I wanted to pass I can pass from this particular prompt
template, which is what this prompt template is really expecting.
And now how do I pass this env or the the input variable to the prompt template.
Well I can do this.
Let me just create a prompt like a proper prompt which I'm going to be passing in.
And I'm going to write a, I'm going to call a method called as invoke.
So this invoke method is going to be something that we have already used while we're calling the LM
invoke.
The same thing is what I'm calling over here.
This is a common method or streamlined method which is used in lang chain, which can help you pass
or invoke anything that you are trying to pass, or any runnables that you pass.
Well, if I'm saying runnables, don't worry about it.
We'll be talking about Runnables in more details in upcoming lectures of this course.
But Runnables are very important concept that we are going to be talking about as well.
And over here I can pass the input variables something like this.
Basically I can pass as a dictionary of E and v and I'm going to say a local machine.
Right.
So this is going to be E and V.
And the values I'm going to pass is going to be local machine.
Look at that.
Now that I have passed this over here.
So this is how I pass the the variable input variable as a dictionary value.
Because you can have multiple number of input variables in future because this is an array type.
So if you want to pass a value to the array type you need to pass it as a dictionary.
As you can see over here it has a key and value pair.
So that is how you do it.
And now if I want to print how the prompt look like.
So if I print the prompt, you will notice that the prompt itself is of a type string prompt value where
it has got a text.
What is the advantage of running lm in and see that it has just made it as local machine?
Basically the prompt now has got this value of local machine.
Just add it to the existing template of the prompt value.
And now that is how the things are going to be over here.
Now it sounds interesting right.
So if I want to print this particular prompt value, uh, if I just put print, if I just run it, you
see that it has got the text as what is the advantage of the LLM running in the local machine.
So that is what we are going to be passing in to our local large language model.
So how do we actually do that.
Well I'm going to just say LLM dot invoke see the same method.
And over here I'm going to pass the prompt because that is what we were doing even before while we were
trying to pass the text.
Right.
So instead of the text I'm going to pass the prompt.
And if I now try to print this particular value.
So you see that, uh, so now it is passing that value to the local large language model.
And now it is sending that value.
But we have to print the value out as well.
So let me just wait for this to execute.
Ah, there we go.
So you see that we are getting an AI message.
This is the same kind of AI message that we were seeing on the Lang Smith.
And over here it says the content is running.
The large language model in your local machine or on your local machine has several advantage, blah,
blah, blah.
And this is the response coming out from our local large language model.
And now if I want to just print the content alone, I can just say, um, maybe the content is equal
to.
And then there is this property called as content.
And then if I try to run this, it is going to store the content into the content for us.
And while this is running, I'm also going to show you how the Lang Smith is going to look like.
So if I try to refresh this look at that.
So there is this chat alarm is already running behind the scene in my machine.
So that is why this is keep running there.
But in the meantime you can also see, because we have used the prompt template over here like local
machine.
So it is showing me local machine.
And what is the text and what is this a string prompt value.
And we were also passing to the chat Olama which is this one.
So what is the advantage of running the LLM in the local machine.
It has costed us around 396 token.
Guys.
Look at that.
And then the output is just coming up over here as you can see.
So this is an huge response coming from the AI.
I think it has printed the value.
So if I just go back yeah the content, we have not printed the content.
So we can just print the content alone separately.
So probably we just put a code there.
And if I print the content and if I run it up, you see that we have got the content alone over here
so we can print the content.
If I wanted to say print the content and if I run this, look at that.
So we get all the response is over here.
That is what we are going to be getting out from the prompt template.
And now you got the idea like how the prompt template is really used and why it is really used.
Because while we build a large language model application, these kind of templates are really important
while we pass the input.
But now there begs the question, because we have got the human input and the output from the AI is
something like this.
What if I wanted to pass both the human input and I'm expecting an AI output in this fashion?
So how can I actually do that?
How can I pass a human input?
And also, how can I instruct the AI to say that you are an expert in this domain as a system and then
give me this particular response?
How can I actually do that?
Well, you can do that all using the chat prompt template.
So you can set a role to your LLM so that it can respond it even more correctly.
So that is what we are going to be discussing in our next lecture.